And now we're going to cover VPC endpoint services. VPC endpoint services enable you to connect to services
that are shared in other accounts or from other VPCs and those services can be private services
that are created by users of AWS or they can be AWS services such as S3 which are publicly
available services which normally you would need some routes over the Internet to connect to them over
a public IP.
So what endpoint services do is they enable you to connect and consume shared services using the AWS
private link backbone which is a secure network connection that doesn't traverse the Internet.
So what we're going to do in this lab is we're actually gonna create our own service.
So we've got a service provider and this is gonna be a VPC within our account and we're going to create
a web service on it and we're going to create a network load balancer which is essential for an endpoint
service and what we will then do is publish that service and then in our other VPC, our default VPC, we're
then going to create an endpoint which enables us to then consume that service privately.
So this is gonna be an EC2 instance and a private subnet.
And we're going to connect from our instance here in a public subnet so this could just as easily be
in a private subnet because we're only using private IP addresses to connect to the service.
It's purely within Amazon.
Nothing goes to the Internet.
So let's go to the console and we're going to create our endpoint service
so we're in the AWS management console and we're going to go to VPC and here you will find endpoint services
and we can click creates an endpoint service.
Now the first thing it's going to do is ask you to create a load balancer and we can just click on the
link here to create a light balance and opens a new window.
Now this has to be a network load balancer.
Now we're just going to call it myNLB and I want this to be an internal load balancer and port 80
is fine and I'm going to just select the ap-southeast-2a subnet.
In fact this one excuse me this one should be in the custom VPC so make sure we put this one in your
custom VPC because this is the service provider and in here I'm going to select my private subnet and
click on Next.
And we'll now create our target group just going to call it TG1 and the protocols TCP I'm going
to change the health check to port 80 and put it in my index.html
and we'll just change the healthy thresholds to now we don't have any targets yet we're just going to
create so the load balancer is being created and we need to create our instances so the first one I want
to create is going to be the service provider the web server.
So I'm going to go in and select my custom VPC.
I remember we put this in the private to a subnet because that's where our load balancer is gonna be
looking for this instance.
And I'm going to select the S3 full access.
I am wrong and we're gonna go down to advanced details and we're going to paste in the same code we've
been using for quite a few labs now to set up a web server and give it a name
so with the user then data enter.
Let's click on Next go to security groups and let's select our web access security group which gives
us the HTTP inbound from any source which we need and we'll click on launch
so that's our private instance we now need to just put a simple Amazon Linux instance in a public subnet
and all of them are public in way a default VPC here.
And I don't need to do anything else
and let's just go through we'll need to connect to this over the Internet.
So I need to assess each access I'm a click launch instances.
And so we have these two launching I just want to go down to target groups and register my instance
in my target group.
So they would go back to that one in and that's registered and that's just going to take a few minutes
now to connect but we have the load balancer in now so if we come back here I'm just going to refresh
this page by basically starting again and we can now see the load balancer and there's a few options
here we can see only one availability zone is included.
AWS recommend that you select all of your availability zones
require acceptance for endpoints that means to anyone who wants to consume the service we actually they
actually have to put through a connection request and then we have to accept it and I'll leave that
defaults and create the service
so just going back to the diagram quickly we've just created our web server that's going to be running
Apache and it's going to have a web page that we can connect to using curl from our instance here and
it should show us a bunch of data from the index.html with the name at the end and we've put
our load balancer in front of that and created this endpoint service.
So what we need to do now in our default VPC we need to actually create this endpoint so that our instance
in the public subnet here can connect to this endpoint service.
So let's go back here and we go to endpoints create endpoints and we're going to create needs as select
by name.
So let's just go back quickly to endpoint services.
And here we have the service name and I'm just going to copy that's on my clipboard and then so this
is where we create our endpoints.
Now there's a couple of different types there's an interface endpoint which is powered by private link
that uses an elastic network interface as the entry point for traffic destined to the service and then
you have the gateway endpoint which means you end up with a target in your round table for traffic destined
to the service rather than an Ina.
And I so if you look at AWS services here you can see quite a lot of services and their user interface
or gateway type.
So if you select DynamoDB for instance here it will tell us that a rule will be created in our route table
and if we select an interface type such as EC2 just which availability zones we want to enable
this endpoint for, what we want to do here is we're going to create we're going to find our service
by name I'm going to paste in my service name I'm going to click verify it's been found we can see only
has the one subnet available and we can come down to security groups and just choose our web access
security group and create endpoints
so we need to go to the endpoint services and in here we need to look for endpoint connections and we
can see that the state here has pending acceptance so we can go in and accept this connection request.
So now when we come back here it's still saying pending sometimes it takes a few minutes to update.
So meanwhile let's go back to our instances in EC2 and I just want to get the public IP address of
this instance that we can connect to
so I'm in the console now and I'm going to SSH into our public EC2 instance
and let's go back.
So we want to grab the DNS name of the endpoint service.
So I'm going to copy this to my clipboard and then we're going to head back to the command line and
I'm going to hit and paste in the VPC endpoint service DNS name.
And there we go.
So this is the index.html file on our web server.
We've got.
Hi this is Tricia.
At the end.
So that's the instance that we just created and what we've done is we've connect since that instance
over the private backbone directly from one VPC into another using a VPC endpoint and connects into
an endpoint service.
So that's creating an endpoint service.
Now let's just go back to the console.
It's probably worth understanding the different types of services that are available as interface or
gateway endpoints for the exam.
So I just understand the different services that you are likely to see and hear and what we can do now
is I'm just going to cancel out of here and we can delete our endpoints and we can delete our endpoint
service
and then we can go for and delete instances
and load balancer
and of course our target group and that's everything reset.